{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz200000_GRAD_wght2580000;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz110000_GRAD_wght2580000;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green26\blue30;\red255\green255\blue255;\red13\green80\blue209;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 S2O-SARUNet\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Ahmed-M-Abdelaziz/S2O-SARUNet#s2o-sarunet"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 SAR-to-Optical Self-attention Res-UNet for Grayscale Images Colorization implementation code\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Abstract
\f1\b0 \'a0Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery provides all weather, day and night Earth observation but lacks the spectral richness of optical imagery, which limits interpretability in many applications. This project presents an enhanced SAR-to-Optical (S2O) translation model architecture based on a conditional Generative Adversarial Network (cGAN) with a Residual U-Net generator augmented by self attention, which we will call S2O-SARUNet. Using the SEN1\'962 dataset, comprising globally distributed, multi season SAR\'96optical pairs, and integrating VGG based perceptual loss, spectral consistency constraints, cosine-annealed learning rates, and early stopping to maximize structural and spectral fidelity on GPU hardware (RTX A2000, 4 GB). Our model (S2O-SARUNet) achieves an average SSIM of \uc0\u8764 0.770 and PSNR of \u8764 25.85 dB, with a peak SSIM of 0.961 and best case PSNR of 27.5 dB, exceeding existing benchmark baseline cGAN, as well as transformer augmented, and diffusion refined variants. Ablation analyses indicate that these improvements are primarily driven by the integration of self-attention for global context modeling and residual connections for stable feature propagation.\

\f2\b Implementation details
\f1\b0 \'a0Hardware: Intel Core i7-11850H (16 threads), 32 GB RAM, NVIDIA RTX A2000 (4 GB) VRAM, 1 TB SSD. Software: Anaconda 2.0, Python 3.7, PyTorch 1.12, CUDA 11.3, cuDNN 8.2 on Windows 10 Pro. Splits: 70%/20%/10%. Optimizer: Adam (\uc0\u946 1=0.5, \u946 2=0.999). LR schedule: cosine annealing. Early stopping: 15 epochs without SSIM improvement. Resolution: 128\'d7128. Batch size: 4. Max epochs: 300.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Dataset
\f1\b0 \'a0Aviliable at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mediatum.ub.tum.de/1436631"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://mediatum.ub.tum.de/1436631}}\'a0use password "m1436631" when needed\
}